So a lot of vuex magic was done over the last lectures, a lot of things that don't really are connected
to authentication, at least not directly.
The core issue we have is that damn token which we need to authenticate ourselves, the auth object on firebase
isn't available because we've got a token, we got it in the store but we're not passing it on with our
http requests to our firebase database,
time to change that. Now
the cool thing is passing on the token is actually super simple, in store user where we access a URL where
we need the token, we can also extract the current state from our context object and the state is of
course where we store the token.
Now here, we can simply check if state ID token is set,
so if this field is not null and if this were null,
so I'm adding an exclamation mark,
we could just return and not make this http request.
In all other cases, we know we have the token and now we simply have to append something to that
URL and that of course now again depends on the backend you're using,
some might require you to send an authorization header which contains the token, firebase requires
you to pass an additional query param, auth. Auth equals is what you have to add
and then you set this equal to state ID token so to that token you got and I'll do the exact same thing
for my other request,
so for fetching users here, there I'll replace this with global axios post in my ID token check, post
is then again replaced with get of course because I have a get request and that is all.
Now the user data here, this argument of course also has to be removed,
it's a get request
but with that, we're now passing on the token, for firebase as a query param, for your own backend,
maybe differently,
the key thing is we're extracting it from the state, from the store therefore and we're appending it
to our request. With that if we now go back and I sign up again where we should then also store the user
data, if I use now another unused email address, enter an age here, some password. maybe a hobby and accept the terms
and I hit submit,
now you see we get two successful responses and now you can also see in your firebase database, if you
click on data,
that we got new users here,
that's the user I just created.
So this is now working,
now we're finally using that token for something good.
Now if we go back to the application to the dashboard, there we still get an error though because we
essentially have an error in the state and we also tried to read the property e-mail in at a point
of time
we don't have it yet because we tried to output it right from the start
even if we have no e-mail yet.
Now let's fix this quickly too,
let's first of all work on that e-mail thing.
A nice fix is to go to the e-mail computed property and there where we try to fetch it on a user even if user
might be null,
let's simply return either this store getters user, either false if that is falsy
so that will be the case as long as user is null or return our other original code if user is set,
so this should prevent this error. Now the state is not defined, error is stemming from the store.js
file, in fetch user I'm accessing state ID token but I forgot to also extract state from this
context object,
so let me quickly do this here. As soon as I do this,
if I now reload this page, you'll see I still got this null error because I messed this up,
of course I want to check if not this store getters user,
so if this is falsy and as I explained it but didn't code it.
So now with that saved, now if I reload, you see false here. Now it never updates though,
the reason for this makes sense though,
I reloaded the app and therefore, our token was lost.
Let me stay in the app and quickly login and now go to dashboard
and now you see, it correctly switches and of course since outputting false isn't too pretty,
we can also use v-if on the paragraph and check that we only output this if e-mail is true-ish,
so as long as it is false, the whole paragraph will be hidden.
So now if I reload this,
we don't even see that,
if I do sign in though however again, I go back to dashboard, it appears after it loaded it.
So now all of that is working,
now we're using this token, we're passing it on and therefore, we get authentication implemented.
There are still things we can improve though,
for example updating the header depending on the authentication state and preventing us from accessing
dashboard in the first place
if we're not authenticated. Let's start with this access prevention discard in the next lecture.